hello everyone my name is Tyler and this
week we will be going over the size by
speed tab in the particle system for
unity so for this week I've just set us
up with a basic befall particle system
no fancy ones for this week so I guess
without further ado let's get started so
sighs my speed is kind of similar to
color by speed where you define a speed
range for your particle and then you
kind of mess with a curve representing
the size of your particle over time so
let's take a look and see what we can do
with that so let's give it an
interesting kind of curve just kind of
literally over time it'll grow in size
but as you notice it's not really being
applied to the particle and that's
because um size by speed won't work with
the starting speed it'll only work with
velocity over lifetime so let's give our
particle some sort of velocity over
lifetime and then match it to our
speed and give it a bit higher so
everyone can see so as you can see now
it's it's more or less working the
particles are basically just starting
off very small and growing over time
until they die so that's basically
essentially what size by speed is the
only kind of tricky things that you have
to know about it is it doesn't work with
the starting speed or the force over a
lifetime it will only work with velocity
over lifetime because I guess it uses
that specific velocity calculation to
determine what size the particle should
be at but other than that there's not
much else to it I guess we can just kind
of mess around with the values and the
curves and stuff to see what kind of
interesting things we can come up with
so I'm going to change some of those
right now see let's get a nice little
kind of U shape going on make some
interesting motion for the particle now
let's change their size over speed a
little bit to make a little bit more
interesting as well let's make another
kind of U shape but this time have a
kind of opposite to what our velocity
over lifetime is now let's see what
should we change we change the starting
sighs to be a little bit bigger should
we change the lifetime to be a bit
little bit longer that's a bit too big
let's change it back
you can't really the particle size is
basically going to zero so you can't
really see it right here so that makes
it look kind of awkward so let's raise
these up a little bit like point2 ish
that's a little bit more interesting but
yeah that's basically about what you can
do with size my speed I don't I
personally don't use it very much
because it's a little bit more limiting
than size our lifetime and you have a
lot more on control the size of our
lifetime with sighs my speed your kind
of limited to using velocity over
lifetime so again I personally don't use
it there very much but it's there if you
want to do something interesting with it
but other than that that's about it for
this week's video as usual if you have
any questions comments or concerns leave
them in the comments and I will respond
an answer to the best of my ability next
week we're going to be going into the
more complicated aspects of particles
because in order to talk about rotation
over lifetime and rotation by speed I
need to talk about the render tab for
unity particles so we'll be going over
that next week and hopefully everything
goes well so thank you everyone for
watching